# Multicore Mergesort with OpenMP
Implementing OpenMP library supporting parallel programming for a purpose of realization mergesort algorithm simultaneously on several cores (C++).

Program starts by asking a user to give the range of generated numbers and the number of them (max. 6 mln elements). After that user is asked to insert a number of threads on which the program will be executed. Memory is dynamically allocated for the chosen array size. Next, the array is filled with randomly generated numbers from the selected range. If the user wants the program to be run on more than one core, the array is divided into as many parts as the number of desired threads. Each of the threads will operate only on the array index range which was associated to it (there is no way race condition occurs as each thread is assigned with a disjunctive, according to other threads, set of indexes). At this moment program is being branched and paralleled. In order to do that, OpenMP directives are used. Each of the threads applies a recursive merge sort algorithm for his part of array. When all the threads finishes sorting their part of array, we get array sorted in intervals. To sort the array in the whole range we need to continuously apply merge algorithm to the following 2 intervals to finally get one sorted array. E.g, if we start the program on 8 threads, we get array sorted in 8 intervals. As the result 3 merge levels are necessery. On the 3rd level we need to perform 4 merges, on the 2nd - 2, on the 1st - 1 (levels are descending). The number of merge levels is equal to the base 2 logarithm of the number of used threads. For 8 threads it equals 3. Thus, first loop will be iterating through merge levels. Having the information about the current level, program can calculate the number of required iterations(merges) for this level. Nr_of_merges = pow(2,i), where i = nr_of_levels – 1. Number of merges defines the second loop in which merge algorithm is run for the certain interval dependent on iteration number. When all the merges are finished, a function copies the elements from working array to destination array. After that the whole array is sorted.
